##UTILIZATION AWARE IN BIKE SHARING SYSTEMS

#INTRODUCTION
The rapid development of bike-sharing systems has brought people enormous convenience during the past decade. On the other hand, high transport flexibility gives rise to problems 
for both users and operators. For users, dynamic distribution of shared bikes caused by uneven user demand often leads to the check in or check out service unavailable at some 
stations. For operators, unbalanced bike usage comes with more bike broken and growing maintenance cost. In this project, we consider to enhance user experience and rebalance 
bicycle utilization by directing users to different stations with a higher success rate of rental and return. 

We devise a trip advisor that recommends bike check-in and check-out stations with joint consideration of service quality and bicycle utilization. To ensure service quality, 
we firstly predict the user demand of each station to obtain the success rate of rental and return in the future. To rebalance bike usage, from historical data, we identified that 
biased bike usage is rooted from circumscribed bicycle circulation among few active stations. Therefore, with defined station activeness, we optimize the bike circulation by 
leading users to shift bikes between highly active stations and inactive ones. This way, the bikes which were not so much in use before will come into use now. 

#EXISTING SYSTEM
At present, operators perform bike redistribution based on monitor video and user complaints. This method has exposed serious lag. It is usually when service unavailable events
occur that operators start to give some scheduling instructions. When the vehicle arrives, service unavailable events may have passed for some time, which makes it difficult to 
meet the needs of users at rush hour.

#PROPOSED SYSTEM
The proposed system will predict the pattern in which the bike rides are happening. Using machine learning algorithms such as decision tree, random forest and linear 
regression we predict the future demand of each station. This will help the operator to place more bikes in the peak time and they can maintain their business in an 
efficient manner. Using euclidean distance formula, we also identify the nearest best stations for rental and return of bicycles.

As the results are accurate, We can create a wealthy system by reducing the loss that has been bared by the bike sharing companies till now. And enhanced user experience will 
promote a healthy habit among huge number of people.
